So, training for today is done. This time I'm fully focused on the garden. And yes, there were a few runners this week. My Garmin still says I'm in shape.

I'm here feeling pretty cool, but not really how I imagined it. Totally into the garden. Having a tendency to see how things progress. Has anything really changed in the heart rate or anything?

Therefore, I don't take it too seriously. I also rode my bike a bit and did a little training. I worked in the garden as well, and of course, there is also activity involved and physical strengthening. For that, you still have to work on your fitness.

I am currently training for a competition. I spontaneously signed up for a 10-mile run. And yes, I am excited. I have never run that far in a competition before.

But since I want to run away from it one more time, that is of course a good goal. However, I simply forgot about it. People have shown me that I can actually do it again... I believe that I have just managed it.

And yes, the concentration has run out. It can definitely get much better. Especially with the nose simulator. I notice that I can breathe much better with my nose.

I can get more air. This naturally means more oxygen. Definitely, I just notice that I have better endurance. I can hold out longer.

That's wonderful. It's a good improvement in performance. I will see if I really use this for a short or long time. For high-intensity sessions, it's simply easier to use the simulator.

I don't do that for bike tours. It's rather inconvenient when you need to blow your nose while biking. That's also rather difficult. If you want to run, it's not so nice.

It works quite well there. Therefore, a very sporty week. If you focus a little, it helps as well. And as I said, small gadgets like the nose fan can also be helpful.

I have mild allergies in the summer against pollen. My nose shows that I am always a bit stuffy. Even during exertion, it often happens that my nose just gets too stuffy. And then I have trouble breathing.

This is obviously quite bad for athletic activities. That's why I'm really glad to have found this solution. Thank you very much to my buddy Sven for the recommendation. It was really good.

I'll keep you updated. The competition is next week. Next Saturday is the competition. Saturday is the competition.

That means you will hear next week how I did in the ten-mile race in the nature reserve. That's it. "I'll tune in again next week."