# Translated Transcript (English)

So, I'll take you along. My first competition yesterday, in a long time. And I've put together a little review. Well, I didn't prepare much.

I did a few longer runs, of course, but I didn't really prepare for the 10 miles properly. However, it went surprisingly well. Right at the beginning, I was pushed by adrenaline, and that's definitely not to be underestimated. You run with the crowd.

There were about 160 participants. I finished in 60th place in the end and I'm really satisfied with the result. But as I said, the crowd really pushed me forward at the beginning. And I look at my watch and think, I'm going way too fast.

I wanted to run at a 4:45 pace. I knew I could maintain that well over the 16 kilometers. Based on my previous run this week, which was slow and where I thought I was just under 6 minutes per kilometer, that should be easy to manage. I ran the first 2 kilometers at 15.

Very, very fast. I was in a good rhythm, in a good pace. I had 1-2 people in front of me who were running at a similar speed. I thought I would just stick to it.

Little by little, I had to ease off a bit and then I thought I couldn't keep up that pace for long. I decided to drop down to a 5:20 and try to maintain that for as long as possible. That's still well below my pace, so significantly faster than I intended to run. But I felt pretty good, even though I didn't sleep ideally and maybe didn't eat ideally that day either.

I believe there's still room for improvement. I didn't eat badly, but it wasn't the optimum with carbs and so on. What I definitely need to do is take a small bottle and holder with me to drink more fluids in between. I noticed that at the drinking stations, which came every 4.5-4 km, it always gave me a little push.

A bit of fresh water and some fluids, a little water on my head. That was another boost. But I think for a distance longer than 10 km, it would be good to get a bit more fluid in between. I apparently consume a lot of fluids because my pulse was quite high.

Something definitely needs to change. Maybe also a bit with carbs, so perhaps a bit of sugar syrup added, possibly a gel. That would definitely help a bit, maybe push a bit more there. In between, there were 1-2 times when I thought, now it’s going to get tough, now it’s going to be hard.

But then the beauty of the route was just amazing. Then a song came on that pushed me. Of course, I had my headphones with me and I had my music on my Garmin watch. That definitely inspired me again.

When a good song came on or when you ran around the next bend and could look out at the sea again, it was just great. Now it's a day later. I can tell you, it's not that bad at all. I actually have almost no muscle soreness at all.

Just a little in the shoulder, due to the strain of course, but in the legs, not really at all. A bit in my hip flexor in the front area, just a little light muscle soreness, but nothing significant. My hip flexors are usually very prone to this, especially because of all the sitting. I'm working on doing some stretching exercises daily.

I really need to push myself to do this more. It definitely helps when you sit a lot. I'm also trying to work more while standing to relieve some pressure, as it's helpful in everyday life to not have that strain, especially when you can relieve the hip flexor and not have it always tight. Yesterday, I was naturally exhausted, but it wasn't like I was completely wiped out.

I've felt much worse after shorter runs. In the end, there was a little final sprint. I also pushed a bit harder then. I was quite quick in the last 500 meters.

That actually gives me hope that I still had a bit more energy in the tank. If I had a bit more nutrition along the way, it would probably last a bit longer as well. I'm looking towards the half marathon, with the goal of running one. I'm actually quite confident that I can complete it in under two hours.

That's definitely the next goal for a longer run. Let's see what else comes up. Next week is already the next competition. There will be a marathon in relay running.

I will be running a distance of just under 6.5 kilometers. I will try to push my pace up and really step it up a notch. That's only 6 kilometers. You can push yourself a bit more to get a little boost.

That should work out. All in all, I'm very satisfied with how it went, despite the little training. But I notice that if you invest a little more in training, it will definitely help. As I said, a bit of training, I believe, could push that a bit more.

So that I can maybe maintain the 15 on a longer distance. Maybe even go further up. This is definitely a good interim status. The High Rocks is coming up soon.

It's only half the distance. Of course, there are workouts in between. I still need to work a bit on my running training. Definitely.

With the nasal dilator, it went wonderfully. I was able to get a lot of oxygen through my nose. That definitely helped me to run more relaxed, I found. It made a noticeable difference.

All in all, I ran relatively relaxed. That was good. In between, I had one or two moments where I thought it was really getting tough. But then there was fresh wind again, a bit of water, and it actually went really well.

It was a great experience. I could still train a bit more on my running so that it feels a bit more relaxed, so that my body gets used to it. The shoes worked great. Everything was perfect.

There were no problems at all. I'm looking forward to the next run and let's see if it goes just as well. The next step is probably to do some more base runs to see if we can get the heart rate down a bit during the run. It was relatively high at the end, around 160.

If we can get it down by another ten beats, it would probably be much more relaxed for the pace. We'll see. Maybe a bit of training will help. And then some endurance runs, a few longer, slower runs that are beneficial.

And then also some interval training. Especially for the High Rocks, there are always 1-km intervals between the workouts. It probably makes sense to do some interval training again. And I have my running track around the corner.

So I can run a few laps and do some smaller workouts in between, like burpee broad jumps, lunges, and a few squats. You can definitely throw all of that in between. It should definitely go well. So, I'll keep you updated.

It was definitely a very good experience and shows me that my training is not entirely wrong. Even though I could have structured it a bit more if I could have done it more, it was fun. I can recommend it to everyone. I will definitely come back next year and hope that I can maybe shave off a minute or two from my time.

That would definitely be great. So, until then, dear sports friends. We'll read each other.